# A story about git

Once, there was a group of developers, happily pushing and pulling to and from the main branch. While this caused some issues when working on the same file simultaneously, it wasn't that big of a problem, as there were only three of them, so chances of them introducing conflicts were pretty low.

One day, however, they started to discover the magic of branches. This enabled them to have different versions, or timelines of their project and test out their changes and tweaks completely independent from the changes of everybody else. So, they started to adopt this feature and created new branches for their features, merging them with the main branch once their feature was complete. Sure, when they learned about branches, there was an old text carved into the wall in an arcane language, saying _Beware of merge conflicts_, but the group has seen other, much more scary texts in the past, such as C++ Templates and so, they weren't too intimidated by this.

Once, a member of the group, probably one that hasn't got enough sleep that day tried to fetch the changes of a fellow group member developing on the same branch. As he wanted to merge the changes in, the command failed, telling him that he needs to resolve some form of conflict first, before merging. When opening the merge file, the developer was presented with two allegedly conflicting file versions, that looked **identical** in almost all lines. He created a new version of the file, but somehow, git didn't accept it. So, he tried to commit his changes to a new commit, but this failed again, as he hadn't successfully merged before. He tried to checkout to an older version of the branch, which failed again, for the same reason. It took the young developer more than an hour of what appears closer to demon summoning than coding (although some people claim that this is more or less the same anyways) to get the repository in an usable and updated state again.

However, not everything was perfect once the repository was usable again. A convenience commit has been made on the main branch since that and the young developer decided that he wants that commit in the current branch as well. So he re-based the branch onto the new commit, and was pretty surprised to see that it worked without issues. As he was trying to push the updated branch to the server however, he was running into issues again. Somehow, the current branch was now 5 commits ahead and 4 commits behind its remote counterpart. For some reason, re-basing the remote branch as well did not work and the only solution was to merge the branch into itself, which caused _literally the same commits_ to be merged with one another, which didn't affect the project itself, but the commit history. This part now looks, as if hell itself decided to manifest into git branches, and looking onto the final result and thinking about the similarities between coding and demon summoning, the young developer learned, that apparently, demons like spaghetti.

The moral of the story: **Beware of merge conflicts!!**
